# Synthetic-data-Using-GAN-model

The motivation for this project comes from the innovation-hampering effect that General Data Protection Regulation (EU GDPR) policies have on technology providers nowadays. To design and develop new, innovative solutions for a broad range of financial institutions, they need access to representative, relevant data. However, such data often contains lots of personally identifiable information (PII in short) and individuals’ protection imposed by GDPR prevents technology developments from working on such data without tedious and complicated legal processes. As such, this is where synthetic data comes extremely useful, as it would be statistically accurate and, hence, as representative as the real data, but since it would not contain any PII (simply because it would be artificially created), their use would not be legally challenging.
There are a few methods to produce synthetic data, but Generative Adversarial Networks (GAN) models are particularly interesting. Although researchers keep emphasizing GANs’ outstanding capabilities in data augmentation, dealing with missing data problems, and other feasible application areas, the case that led to this project is the capability of Generative Adversarial Networks to generate artificial data that would maintain the (statistical) attributes of the original data. As such, usage of such generated data would allow for the exploration of attributes of private datasets with no breach of privacy regulations and no risk of sharing any pieces of sensitive information.

In this project, we have used two datasets:
1. The first is a financial loan dataset. This dataset is particularly category and numerically heavy and thus is the easier of the two datasets to work with. We recommend using the lc_loan.csv dataset or combining both the test and train datasets for more data.
   https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/husainsb/lendingclub-issued-loans?select=lc_loan.csv
3. The second dataset is a list of complaints. This dataset is particularly string focused.
   https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/kaggle/us-consumer-finance-complaints
